## ***Go to the Library. Learn from Librarians.*** ***Information Literacy & Management taught by Librarians is*** ***one of the top 5 most important skills for your career and successful future!***

## **\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\***

#### **Please read over the sub-pages in this EBO and Essay Assignments Info section**

#### **Ensure you are reading fully and thoroughly all the sections & pages, and check back for updates**

#### **There is also a Bot which can be used to answer many questions, and do email us if you have other question**

# Scaffolding: Why an Essay AND an EBO?

Politics requires us to listen to arguments, read analyse, and engage
with others ideas. One important aspect of Political Science, thus, is
learning to write clear, strong, well-researched and properly argued
essay. This is an important and impressive skill to master as you go
through your university education and for opportunities beyond after
graduation.

#### **What is Scaffolding?**

In order to help you learn to do this and develop those skills, we use a
**Scaffolding process** to help you learn to write a strong essay. What
is Scaffolding? \"Vygotsky coined a definition of instructional
scaffolding that focused on teacher practices. He defined this as, 'the
role of teachers and others in supporting the learner's development and
providing support structures to get to that next stage or level'
(Raymond, 2000).\"(1) More to the point, Loveless says, \"Scaffolding ..
was defined as breaking up learning into chunks so that students tackled
increasingly more complex material.\"(2) So, think of our Essay
Assignments process like a Video game: every level you gain new
education skills/powers, and then you use them to do well on the next
assignment which levels up from the last one.

#### **So how does the Scaffolding work?**

1.  Essay Bibliography and Outline (EBO): We will show you how to find
    peer-reviewed Academic sources for your EBO. You will have access to
    videos and other materials to find quality, scholarly sources, and
    an Essay Bibliography Worksheet that will help you work through how
    to find those sources. From there, you will collect and write up
    those sources following either Modern Language Association (MLA) or
    Chicago 17tth edition in the Essay Bibliography & Outline Worksheet,
    which you will submit. For the Outline portion, after reading and
    reviewing your sources, you will write down your two main arguments
    so you develop strong arguments, and ensure your arguments have
    support from your sources. A strong Essay Outline, as you will see,
    has a clear, focussed thesis \-- your central argument you are
    supporting/proving through the course of your essay \-- and
    supporting arguments. You will complete these tasks using the Essay
    Bibliography & Outline Worksheet, which you will submit.

2.  Final Essay: You pull together your research into a 1500-word Essay.
    Your EBO\'s sources & arguments will help you develop and write your
    Final Essay. The Final Essay has particular components -- thesis,
    arguments, opposing arguments, rebuttal/response, citations,
    bibliography/works cited etc. -- and you will have to show your
    ability to make coherent, interconnected, well-written,
    well-researched and well-argued analyses of and arguments about your
    essay topic.

Therefore, in our class, you will complete two assignments which
comprise the Essay: EBO and Final Essay. Details for each of these
assignments are provided on this OWL site.

\(1\) Dawn Castagno-Dysart, Bryan Matera, Joel Traver, \"The importance
of instructional scaffolding\",
[https://www.teachermagazine.com.au/articles/the-importance-of-instructional-scaffolding\
](https://www.teachermagazine.com.au/articles/the-importance-of-instructional-scaffolding)(2)
Becton Loveless, \"Scaffolding in Education\",
<https://www.educationcorner.com/scaffolding-education-guide.html>

# How do I Do Research, Find Sources, Use the Library Resources, etc., to complete the EBO?

## **What and where are some Resources, Videos, etc., for these Assignments?**

Now that you have a sense of what your final product is, you\'ll need to
begin how to go about researching. It\'s important that you review these
resources before you begin working on your assignments. If you decide to
jump into the assignment without fully reviewing this information,
chances are, you\'ll make needless errors. The library has provided
great resources that will be particularly helpful to prepare for this
assignment.

### **Where is the Library website? How do I get Off-Campus Access to the Library and its Resources so I don\'t pay extra to get articles, newspapers, etc.?**

**Western Libraries website:** <https://www.lib.uwo.ca/>

***How do I get off-campus access from home, out of
London/Ontario/Canada?***\
[Check out info here:
https://www.lib.uwo.ca/offcampus/index.htm](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/offcampus/index.html)

### **Where are Links to Weldon Political Science Librarian Christy Sich\'s Research Help pages?**

- [Databases
  for](http://guides.lib.uwo.ca/politicalscience/corearticles) [articles
  (remember: still need to figure out the scholarly
  sources)](http://guides.lib.uwo.ca/c.php?g=262667&p=2213039)

- [Background Sources (not
  scholarly)](http://guides.lib.uwo.ca/c.php?g=262667&p=2187872)

- [UN & IGO sources (not
  scholarly)](http://guides.lib.uwo.ca/c.php?g=262667&p=2187872)

- [International News sources (not
  scholarly)](http://guides.lib.uwo.ca/c.php?g=262667&p=2212995)

### **What are Keywords?**

\"Keywords, also commonly called search terms, are the words that you
enter into the database search boxes. They represent the main concepts
of your research topic and are the words used in everyday life to
describe the topic. Without the right keywords, you may have difficulty
finding the articles that you need.

Selecting keywords is a multi-step process that involve

- identifying the main concepts of your topic

- brainstorming synonyms and antonyms that could also be used to
  describe your topic

- spell out abbreviations

It is very rare that your first search will bring back perfect results.
It takes trial and error to determine which keywords work best for your
topic. Be prepared to run multiple searches in your quest for the
keywords that will help you find the materials you need.

#### **Turn your topic into keywords**

When doing an internet search in Google or Bing, you can enter your
complete research question in the search box and get a bunch of results.
However, if you enter your entire research question in the Library
databases, you probably won\'t get any results. This is because the
library databases look for the exact words that you enter in the search
box(es). If the database can\'t find all of the words that you entered
in the search boxes in the information about an article, it won\'t bring
back any results. That\'s why it\'s important to search only for the
main parts of your topic.

Here is an example of a research question:

What is the relationship between test performance and the retention of
ESL students?

The keywords for this topic are listed below:

test performance\
retention\
ESL students

### **Synonyms**

Synonyms are words that have the same or similar meaning.

Some topics have many different terms that can be used to describe them.
For example, here are some additional keywords that could be used for
test performance:\
Tests\
Exams\
Test-Taking Skill\
Test Anxiety\
Academic Achievement\
Test Preparation

Source: Walden University Library, \"Keyword Searching: Finding Articles
on Your Topic: Select Keywords\",
<https://academicguides.waldenu.edu/library/keyword/search-strategy>

#### 

#### **Keywords can be \'horizontal\' and \'vertical\'**

Consider the topic of \"Indigenous rights in the Pacific Rim\" area.

Horizontal: a synonym for \"Pacific Rim\" could be \"New Zealand\",
\"Australia\", \"Oceania\"

Vertical: another approach might be to \'dig down\' to focus more on
what you want to explore, so \"Australia\" synonyms could be
\"Aborigines\", \"Queensland\" (where most live), \"Canberra\" (the
capital) \[in this case, one would be writing a paper on Indigenous
peoples of Australia\]

### **[Weldon Library Bruce Fyfes\' Instructional materials]{.underline}**

Created & narrated by Weldon Librarian Bruce Fyfe a few years ago, the
resources below are two **useful downloads**:

1.  Powerpoint show will explain how to figure out the difference
    between Scholarly sources and Popular sources

2.  PDF of the slides in the link below and take notes while you watch
    the video. Enjoy this useful resource

[TopicDevelopmentAndKeywords.ppsx](https://uwoca-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dbousfie_uwo_ca/EWUTZN5ISORMkpyqQejYUzwBauc__Kp76rFY8jGdsVfBBA?e=iBGIkx)

[TopicKeywordNotesSlides-PDF.pdf](https://uwoca-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/dbousfie_uwo_ca/ERwUgpge0cRBrdlHrmHROjoB5kiAg5WdMfpk3JpCyYNxUA?e=JOVWME)

[ScholalryVsPopularLiterature-show.ppsx](https://uwoca-my.sharepoint.com/:p:/g/personal/dbousfie_uwo_ca/EYZ_IoMTwlVCtoW9cUBaDvgBMZZ-TxrxJcOd56DrNVkTrg?e=02L9Pu)

[Scholalry vs popular
literature.ppt](https://uwoca-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/dbousfie_uwo_ca/EcV9QtUkK2xAk7cDpok-C30BLTnH1Fg-uHEWY0y9YRNZog?e=1Pf57q)

### **How do I write a Search-String to get On-Topic Sources?**

Search strings are combining Keywords and Synonyms \-- words you already
have worked out based on your topic and question \-- those words into a
Search statement For examples, you were doing the topic Canada\'s role
in global peacekeeping and decided you will look at one such mission in
Haiti, so one could search: Canada and peacekeeping and Haiti . These
are Keywords about the topic, and you could use some of the synonyms for
a second search string: Canada and food aid and Caribbean (food aid =
synonym for peacekeeping, and Caribbean = synonym for Haiti).

### **How-to-Videos from Weldon Library:**

#### **How do I come up with Search String?**

- [Putting Together your Search Terms \> Tips on creating effective
  search strategies.
  (1:35)](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/puttingtogetheryoursearchterms/index.html)

- [Developing Search Terms \> Tips on brainstorming for additional
  search terms to help you get the best results
  (2:57)](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/developingsearchterms/index.html)

#### **How do I Improve my Searching Results and Skills, esp. Boolean Operators?**

- [Refining your Search with Fields \> Tips & tricks for narrowing down
  your search results.
  (1:22)](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/refiningyoursearchwithfields/index.html)

- [Revising Your Search Strategy \> Helpful search tips to use when you
  can\'t find any sources on your topic.
  (1:45](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/revisingyoursearchstrategy/index.html)[)](http://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/revisingyoursearchstrategy/index.html)

- [Searching with Boolean Operators \> Learn how to create a effective
  search strategy using the Boolean operators, \"AND\" and \"OR\".
  (3:43)](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/searching_with_boolean_operators/index.html)

### **What is a Scholarly Source? How Can I Identify a Scholarly Source?**

### **What is the difference between Scholarly vs. Popular Sources?**

\"**Scholarly vs. Popular Sources**

Definition

A scholarly publication is one in which the content is written by
experts in a particular field of study - generally for the purpose of
sharing original research or analyzing others\' findings. Scholarly work
will thoroughly cite all source materials used and is usually subject to
\"peer review\" prior to publication. This means that independent
experts in the field review, or \"referee\" the publication to check the
accuracy and validity of its claims. The primary audience for this sort
of work is fellow experts and students studying the field. As a result
the content is typically much more sophisticated and advanced than
articles found in general magazines, or professional/trade journals.\
\
In brief, scholarly work is:\
- written by experts for experts\
- based on original research or intellectual inquiry\
- provides citations for all sources used\
- is usually peer reviewed\[\*\] prior to publication"

Source:
<https://guides.library.ubc.ca/EvaluatingSources/ScholarlyPopular>

\"**Scholarly Articles (Journals)**\
- Are written by and for faculty, researchers or scholars (chemists,
historians, doctors, artists, etc.)\
- Uses scholarly or technical language\
- Tend to be longer articles about research\
- Include full citations for sources\
- Are often refereed or peer reviewed (articles are reviewed by an
editor and other specialists before being accepted for publication)\
- Book reviews and editorials are not considered scholarly articles,
even when found in scholarly journals\"

Source: <https://lib.arizona.edu/tutorials/popular-scholarly/> **\< DO
THE QUIZ on this page!**

\"Some points to remember:

- Both magazine and journal articles can be good sources for your work.

- When selecting articles, think about how you intend to use the
  information:

  - Do you want background on a topic new to you? (use magazines)

  - Did your teacher say to cite scholarly resources? (use journals)

- Often a combination of the two will be most appropriate for
  undergraduate research. \"

Source:
<http://www.library.arizona.edu/help/tutorials/scholarly/guide.html>

### 

### **So what does a Scholarly Article actually look like?** 

\"To see the typical components of a scholarly journal article check out
the **[Anatomy of a Scholarly
Article](http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/tutorials/scholarly-articles/) from
North Carolina State University Libraries**.\"

Source: <https://ask.library.arizona.edu/faq/318557>

### **How do I Search for Scholarly Sources through Weldon\'s Website? (don\'t use Google Scholar)**

### **Why not use Google Scholar?**

- You will be charged big \$\$ for articles and books access

- **You already paid big \$\$ for access to a lot more and better
  sources through your Tuition**

- You will **only see random 3-5 pages** from a source and this will
  become obvious to any marker

- It decides sources based on a marketing algorithm (that\'s where
  marketing decides what you should see), while Weldon is seeking the
  best resources for research (that\'s where Librarians are tweaking the
  search engine to get you good stuff so you do well on your essay)

- Some sources are NOT Scholarly \-- you cannot use the claim \'Google
  Scholar said it was\' when your sources get discounted

- Still, you can use Google Scholar to search [in addition
  to]{.underline} Weldon if you so decide, BUT check with Weldon\'s site
  for free access to the same sources.

### **Nig\'s How-To-Video for Searching for Academic Articles**

***This is My Video showing you how to Search for Scholarly Articles
through the Western Libraries\' website***

**Remember: your Tuition has given you access to this fantastic
Librarians-created Search Engine. You will NOT find better materials
through Google, and unless you want to blow \$30-\$100 bucks per article
access or try to figure out what\'s in a 200-page book or 20-page
article by reading 3-random pages selected by Google (recipe for
failure), then you really should use the Library\'s system AND get HELP
from Librarians!**

**Note:**

- **[Weldon\'s new FRONT SEARCH page is
  here](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/index.html) and it is slightly different
  than the one in this older video, BUT while there will be some
  differences from this video, the general instructions and suggestions
  can still be followed by just looking around for similar links,
  modifiers, etc.**

- **If you click on the gear/wheel/circle when you hover over the video
  and a menu comes up over the bottom part: you can turn ON captions;
  you can download the video; and you can download the transcript of
  video**

- **If you click on the arrows (look like an X) when you hover over the
  video and a menu comes up over the bottom part: you can make the video
  full screen**

[**From Weldon \> Omni - Academic Search Tool \> How to Do Good Searches
(download
PDF)**](https://westernu.brightspace.com/content/enforced/130641-UGRD_1259_10045/Weldon-Omni1-AcademicSearchTool.pdf)

[**From Weldon \> Performing Basic Searches (download
PDF)**](https://westernu.brightspace.com/content/enforced/130641-UGRD_1259_10045/Weldon-Omni2-Performing-Basic-Searches.pdf)

[**From Weldon \> Performing Advanced Searches (download
PDF)**](https://westernu.brightspace.com/content/enforced/130641-UGRD_1259_10045/Weldon-Omni3-Performing-Advancing-Searches.pdf)

### **What are Recommended Ways for me to Find and Read Articles?**

- [How to Find Journal Articles \> How to pick the right database and
  get the full text of articles.
  (1:26)](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/howtofindjournalarticles/index.html)

- [How to Read a Scholarly Article \> Tips on skimming and digesting
  journal articles.
  (2:34](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/howtoreadascholarlyarticle/index.html))

### **How do I find Journal Articles through the Library database?**

**Video:** [How do I find Journal Articles through the Library database?
(1:30)\
](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/howtofindjournalarticles/index.html)Better
than a web search engine (Google, Yahoo, Bing, etc.), this will get you
to the right stuff more quickly.\
Remember web search engine results are based on what is most clicked &
then relevant, *not necessarily most credible, evidenced*, etc.\
This will show how to get to the materials we want you to use and get
full-text access.

### **How do I get the Full-Text article?**

**Video:** [How do I get the Full-Text article? (1:47)\
](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/getitatwesternnotworking/index.html)Don\'t
pay Google to get stuff you already paid for!\
This Video will show you how to get the full-text article from the
Weldon library site.

### **How do I figure out if a Journal is Scholarly by using Ulrich\'s Database?**

- Go to: the **Library\'s [Database listing
  here](https://login.proxy1.lib.uwo.ca/login?qurl=https%3a%2f%2fulrichsweb.serialssolutions.com%2f)**
  \-- if you are off-campus, this link will automatically open the
  Off-Campus Proxy Sign-In page (your Western username & password)

- Click on **[Ulrich\'s Periodical
  Director](https://login.proxy1.lib.uwo.ca/login?qurl=https%3a%2f%2fulrichsweb.serialssolutions.com%2f)[y]{.underline}**
  \-- should be the second on down on the page\*

- Type in the name of the journal, e.g. Security Dialogue

- In the output, **look for a check under the \'referee shirt\'
  symbol:**
  ![U,{6df32e21-c90d-4571-8988-756583d18297}{16},3.125,3.125](/media/image2.png "Inserting image..."){width="0.375in"
  height="0.375in"} (third column from left on the grid)

**NOTE the following are NOT Scholarly/Academic Sources for this
Essay:**

- Foreign Policy, Foreign Affairs, The Economist, Time, Newsweek, New
  York Times, Globe & Mail are all newspapers or newsmagazines, *and not
  Scholarly Sources*

- Wikipedia, Britannica, etc. are all encyclopaedias and *not Scholarly
  Sources*

- Rand Corporation, Cato Institute, Fraser Institute, Institute for
  Research on Public Policy, Policy Options, etc., are all think tanks
  and *not scholarly sources*

- Government of Canada, World Bank, Province of Ontario, Organization
  for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are all government
  sources and *not scholarly sources*

- Social Media posts and spaces on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok,
  Vimeo, MySpace, Grinder, Tinder, etc., are all social media sites not
  scholarly sources

**Video \> How to Check if it\'s a Scholarly Source Using Ulrich\'s
Database:**

### **Now that I have lots of Scholarly Articles, how do I figure out, efficiently, which ones are relevant & useful for my Essay?** 

**Video:** [How do I read a Scholarly Article? (2:35)\
](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/howtoreadascholarlyarticle/index.html)Get
know how Scholarly Articles are put together so you can read them
efficiently, and also figure out what is important to focus on in the
content.

**Video:** [How do I evaluate Sources? How do I figure out good from bad
sources? (2:17)\
](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/evaluatingsources/index.html)Not all
information is good information.\
Know the difference between good sources and bad sources.

*Also, for GENERAL assessment, you can use the Librarian\'s
tried-and-test CRAAP Test by downloading this document which shows you
how to do this:*

[*Use the CRAAP Test to figure out if it\'s a Scholarly Source (download
PDF)*](https://westernu.brightspace.com/content/enforced/130641-UGRD_1259_10045/CRAAPtest-EvaluatingSources.pdf)

### **How do I Cite in MLA 9th edition and in Chicago 17th edition Styles?**

#### **DON\'T USE APA or any of the other 300+ styles.**

#### **IMPORTANT NOTES:**

- Citations and Bibliography/Works Cited are two different parts of the
  Essay

- Bibliography is your Sources \-- articles, book chapters, etc. \-- in
  your Essay and is at *end of your Essay* (MLA or Chicago) after the
  text (arguments, etc.) of your Essay

- Citations are you references to your Sources *inside your Essay*, and
  if they are in-line bracket references (MLA) or footnotes (Chicago),
  they are i the inside text-page of your Essay, however, if they are
  endnotes (Chicago) then they go after the text of your Essay but
  before your Bibliography/Works Cited

- You MUST pick ONLY ONE of either MLA Style or Chicago Style \-- don\'t
  mix!

- [ALWAYS include the page numbers]{.underline} for where you got your
  information, etc.

Here is the link to Weldon\'s page on Style Guides: [Weldon\'s Style
Guide page](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/essayhelp/index.html)

Weldon recommends using these two for the Actual Style Guides:

[Chicago Manual 17th Edition guide on Purdue\'s OWL (which also has a
\"Cite your source automatically in Chicago style\"
generator)](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/chicago_manual_17th_edition/cmos_formatting_and_style_guide/chicago_manual_of_style_17th_edition.html)

[MLA 9th Edition guide on Purdue\'s OWL (which also has a \"Cite your
source automatically in MLA style\"
generator)](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/mla_style/mla_style_introduction.html)

### **How do I avoid Plagiarism? How and when do I Paraphrase?**

### **Paraphrasing**

What is Paraphrasing? It is not a phrase with a parachute! How can you
use the ideas in books or articles without plagiarizing? Both of these
resources show you how to do it properly and with examples.

[Click here:
https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/paraphrasing/index.html](https://www.lib.uwo.ca/tutorials/paraphrasing/index.html)

[Check out this Video by Scribbr: \"How to Paraphrase in 5 Easy
Steps\"](https://youtu.be/oiM0x0ApVL8)

### **Plagiarism**

[Info from Western
Libraries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_lnC6z9F8g&feature=emb_logo)

[Check out this Video by Scribbr: \"How to Avoid Plagiarism with 3
Simple Tricks\"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQhVDH9p7aU)

# How do I Approach Writing an Essay for Political Science?

**Why should I read this Essay writing guide?**

There are many writing guides available in the Bookstore and Libraries.
Below is a guide that focuses on our course\'s Essay. It proceeds by
asking common and reasonable essay-related questions and then proceeds
to answer them so you can write a strong, well-argued, well-evidenced
essay. The goal is to provide you effective direction and guidance, and
avoid many of the common mistakes and pitfalls that befuddle essays.

**What is an Argumentative Essay?**

You will be writing An Argumentative Essay. This is one type of essay
and its main goal is to defend a thesis by giving supporting reasons and
evidence. Thus, you should write a clear thesis -- your position on the
question -- which you will support through making arguments, providing
evidence from sources, and addressing objections to your thesis. Before
you write your essay or develop your thesis, make sure you understand
the question and spend some time brainstorming responses. As well, do
read all the sources so you will know what is the breadth and depth of
the issue. Thus, your essay should be using the approach of "This essay
argues" or "I will argue" as the catalyst and frame for doing the essay
(it is okay to use "I" in the essay if you prefer, but either way is
fine).

**When do I start the Essay?**

Now.

**Who is the audience for your essay?**

While your essay will likely only be read by you and the TA-Marker who
marks your essay, you should not be writing with that TA or Professor in
mind. Instead, consider writing the essay with a fellow student in mind.
This is a good strategy because it will force you to write so another
person can read it and understand it. You will avoid writing an obtuse,
inaccessible or jargon-filled essay. Instead, your essay will be
readable by anyone because you have written it clearly and succinctly,
explaining or defining terms, and make arguments that can be understood.
As well, you will provide proper evidence and examples to that the
reader can intelligently and readily follow your arguments and see they
are supported. Another important point: you will need to walk your
reader through the essay step-by-step so you will need to develop your
ideas to show them, rather than assume they are self-evident because you
stated them. In other words, your ideas and evidence need to convince
the average reasonably informed reader, so write accordingly.

**What is the thesis?**

Your thesis is your main claim or position in response to the question
your essay is addressing. Your thesis is the main point or goal or
purpose you are going to defend with arguments and evidence. You should
state your thesis as a single sentence, such as "I argue ..." or "The
state's policy on gambling should be ...". If you have reasons or
arguments in support of this position, you can put those in the next
sentence or sentences. Also, once you have completed your whole essay,
go back and check over your thesis to make sure you have argued and
supported your thesis -- otherwise change your thesis so that it
concords with what you have argued and proven in the essay. Also, what
you argue is up to you as long as your thesis is reasonable and can be
supported by the evidence in the sources.

**What should be in my Introduction?**

The Introduction is the first paragraph of your essay and it should,
above all else, tell us what is your topic-question and what is your
thesis. You must state the question you have chosen (if not the question
itself, then a reasonable version of it without changing the question
focus) and, in the next sentence, state your thesis. Then, consider
answering the 'so what' question: why is this topic important to
consider? Give us some idea why this might be an important topic in your
view. You can also provide some context or background that you think is
relevant. However, avoid 'cosmic clichés' or 'grandiose claims' like
'since the dawn of time', 'there is only one issue that has ever
mattered to anyone', etc. As well, you may give us a 'road map' of your
essay that gives a preview of how your essay is structured and flows
(this helps the reader know how you are going to proceed through the
essay). In addition, you may want to define select terms that have
specific meanings or definitions, but you do not need to define
everything and some of these terms may be better defined in the body of
your essay. In short, the Introduction should ensure that, at the least,
the reader:

- Knows the question which the essay is addressing (the essay question)

- Knows your position or claim in response to the question (your thesis)

- Understands why you think the topic is important to consider

Note, however, a simple Introduction -- just doing the above in 3
sentences -- is a bad Introduction as it should also introduce or
contextualize the topic and question, and show you understand the topic
and question more fully than just the bear minimum. Also, you can put
your thesis wherever you think is appropriate but ensure you use words
-- 'This essay argues', 'The claim here is', 'I will prove that' -- to
make clear the thesis to the reader -- it is the writer's job to make
sure their thesis can be identified and understood by the reader in the
essay.

**What is the Body?**

The Body is not a single thing; the Body of your essay is many
paragraphs composed of many sentences. Do not write a 'hamburger' or '3
para' essay for 1500-words, across 5-6 pages -- such essays do badly.
The Body has many paragraphs, and these paragraphs will bring forward
your arguments and their evidence, the objections to your thesis & their
evidence, and your reply to the objections.

Thus, you will need many paragraphs to do this -- and many sentences
(minimum of 3) inside each paragraph. Think of each paragraph as 'unit
of thought': opening sentence is sign-post telling the reader what the
paragraph is about; then put forward your argument or arguments; provide
the evidence, sources and support for those arguments; and, close the
paragraph by summarizing for the reader the main point of the paragraph.
Thus, the first sentence of the paragraph should tell us what the
paragraph will put forward but also how it is connected to the paragraph
before it, e.g. 'I begin by arguing 'no platform...' so next paragraph
may start 'Having covered 'no platform', we can now look at the first
objection to this ...'. Thus, the Body will bring forward your various
arguments and your researched evidence.

**What is the 'Argument, Objection, Reply' (AOR) format?**

While your thesis is your main claim, you will need to make arguments.
Well-argued essays generally will follow [Graff & Birkenstein's 'They
Say/I Say' format (click
here)](https://www.rcboe.org/cms/lib/GA01903614/Centricity/Domain/10616/They%20Say%20I%20Say%20Full%20Text.pdf)
which focuses on laying out arguments and analyses of others and then
responding to them. In the case of our essay, we are suggesting a
modified version of this. First, show the reader your main Argument (in
support of your thesis): what are you arguing in order to prove your
thesis and what is your evidence and support for this argument from your
sources? Next, show the reader an Objection or Objections to your
argument, again providing evidence that backs up the objection -- this
is also called a 'charitable' presentation of the objection(s) because
you want to show the reader you understand and can present the objection
properly, not sloppily or dismissively. Finally, Reply to the
Objections: what do you argue to refute, oppose, disprove the
Objections, based on evidence and sources. In all cases, you are using
your sources to provide evidence to back up your arguments, objections
and replies. In addition, the AOR format will ensure you show you can
reason and understand your thesis with a number of supporting arguments,
but also defend against reasoned and understood objections. This also
creates a conversation flow to your essay, so the reader sees your
arguments develop and will see if you can defend them against
objections.

How many arguments do you need to support your thesis? Here it is
important to stress we are looking for quality not quantity. For
example, if you decide to make 6 arguments with objections and replies,
your essay will have no depth and lack sources and evidence to support
them -- an argument every 350 words. However, if you do 2 arguments, and
their objections and replies, you are more likely to have depth --
evidence, examples, sources and quotes -- to support your thesis, and
will do better on the essay. Thus, do not aim for quantity of arguments
but depth of arguments.

So, what makes a good Argument'? A good argument puts forward a
reasonable point or claim that links to the thesis, then seeks to prove
it with evidence, sources, quotes, examples, etc. A good argument
supports the thesis and is itself supported. Consequently, the good
argument is reasonable, defensible and evidenced. It also follows the
saying: "Show me, don't tell me"; in other words, prove it with evidence
and sources to persuade the reader, and do not rely on or demand the
reader has to take your word for it (they will not as they are expecting
you to do your job and prove your points).

So, what makes a good Objection and good Reply? In both cases, as with a
Good Argument, you need to provide evidence and proof. As well, you need
to provide 'charitable' presentation of the Objection; this means
present it properly with evidence, as if you were making that as your
argument, and do not simply choose those parts of the Objection that are
easy to shoot down because they are, in fact, an incomplete or incorrect
or skewed presentation of the Objection. Give the Objection a reasonably
positive or favourable presentation before your Reply -- critique,
disprove or pull apart -- to the Objection. Once you have laid out the
Objection, think of a strong Reply to the Objection, and make sure you
provide evidence to back up your Reply. Again, as with the good
Argument, choose quality over quantity, so you have depth to your
analysis.

Also, don't be shy: edit and be a ruthless editor. Pick only your
strongest arguments and evidence to put forward, that is, arguments you
can discuss and prove with depth, i.e. sources and evidence. Similarly,
pick the best Objections and Reply to them. Avoid choosing 'novel' or
'unique' arguments for the sake of 'being different'; novelty without
depth is not going to receive a good grade.

**What is the Conclusion?**

The Conclusion ties together your essay. In it, you want to remind the
reader of the question you responded to, your thesis, and a summary of
your arguments, objections and replies. Never introduce new information,
arguments, etc., that has not already been argued or discussed in the
essay. In addition, based on what you have argued, you are welcome to
suggest further research questions or ideas others can research or
analyse.

**Why do I need to Revise, Review or have a Friend look it over?**

Avoid submitting your first-and-only version of your essay. You need to
learn to manage your time to research, to write, and give yourself time
to edit. A great saying from one of prof's: "Writing is easy; re-writing
is hard"; editing means looking over your words, making sure you have
selected the right words to make your points, or provided the best
evidence to support your arguments, or ensuring your arguments prove
your thesis, or making sure your spelling and grammar are not
problematic or incorrect. One way to avoid a lot of errors: have a
friend or someone else read it over because sometimes what you have
written is not the same as what was in your mind or your choice of words
does not make that point. Many essays drop in overall grade because of
careless errors and problems which make them difficult to read, flow or
understand, and all that could have been avoided by taking a few minutes
to edit the essay. As well, note that Clarity and Organization are
important criteria in assessing your essay, so get someone to read over
and critique your essay, so it is clearer and better argued.

**Why I should cite from the my Sources?**

It is important to cite your ideas, quotations, etc., to show the reader
you got those materials from Sources. The more you use your Sources in
the essay and provide the citations, it is likely you will do better
because the Marker will see you have used all sources and have grappled
with the issues. When you cite, you are giving a clear indication to the
reader your ideas are supported, backed or drawing on others who have
made similar arguments or provide proof for your ideas. Similarly, for
Objections and Replies, sources show you properly understand the other
sides to the debate, that is, you did not just pull stuff out of the
air.

**How should I incorporate my Sources into my essay?**\
There are many ways to do this. You can do the well-known 'quotation
sandwich': introduce the quote or quote's author, then provide the
quote, and then explain the point or connection of the quote to your
argument. You can claim 'As Narain argues, ..." and paraphrase their
point (don't use some or part of their words; if you are using their
words, then just quote them). You can provide your evidence or discuss
your examples, etc., and then cite the source where it comes from.
Again, all this will help the reader to know you did your research and
have understood the necessary ideas, etc. As well, you will do better on
your essay overall because you will have proven and supported your
claims.

**What is Plagiarism?**

If you pass off other people's word, ideas, examples, etc., as your own
in your essay, that will constitute plagiarism. Just as you do not want
someone to steal your ideas, words, etc., do not steal those of others,
either. The Course Outline, the Appendices, and various documents on
UWO's websites provide fuller details of the standards and possible
punishments.

**Can I bring in a draft to be read?**

We will not be reading over drafts.

**Any final advice?**

YES: Pick an Essay topic-question that you will enjoy doing -- if you
have fun doing it, you will likely do better on it. If you have
questions or concerns, use the Essay Bot and please do connect with us.

##  **Good luck!**

# What are the Instructions for the Essay?

### **What is the Essay?**

Our course is an is an Essay course, so you must research, write and
submit a 3,000-word Final Essay. The Essay is an Argumentative essay
with Arguments, Objections and Replies. It should have a Thesis, or
central argument/claim, 2-3 major arguments in support of the Thesis and
supported with evidence and sources. To help you with this, you will
complete and submit the Essay Outline and will receive comments and a
grade.

### **What is the Length of the Final Essay?**

The Essay should be 1**,500 words**. The [maximum]{.underline} is 1700
words. The [minimum]{.underline} permissible length 1300 words. Below
1300 or over 1,700, at the discretion of the Professors and/or TAs, will
receive a penalty of -5% and will definitely be downgraded.

**NOTE: Essays less than 1000 will receive a maximum grade of 48%/F or
less.**

**How should I write the Essay?**

**Read the "How should I approach Writing my Poli Sci Essay?" document**
on the Class OWL site. This document explains how to write an
argumentative essay and you are responsible for knowing what is written
in that document AND for following through in writing your essay
accordingly.

### **What are the Essay Topics?**

1.  **Should Canada pursue the recommendations of the Truth and
    Reconciliation Commission? Focus on 2-3 recommendations.**

2.  **On balance, has globalization's impact been positive or negative?
    Compare the case of 2 countries.**

3.  **Should nuclear weapons be banned?**

4.  **Are global pandemics best managed by international cooperation or
    by states acting on their own?**

5.  **Is the American War on Terror a failure?**

6.  **Should Canada be accepting more refugees?**

NOTE: write your Essay in relation to the current time period, so for
example, don't write about the American War of Independence as
'secession' from England in 1770s

### **How many Academic Scholarly Articles should I use in the Final Essay?**

As many as will help you make your arguments strong, evidenced, cited
and proven, as well as opposing argument credibly presented and refuted.
Still, **you need to have [used at least 7]{.underline} academic
scholarly articles cited in your Essay**. If you don't have [at least 7
academic/scholarly sources cited]{.underline} in your Essay, your grade
maximum will be 60% and less than 5 will . To help you with this, you
will complete and submit the Essay Bibliography, and will receive a
grade and feedback/comments.

**NOTE: Essays less than 5 academic scholarly articles will receive a
maximum grade of 48%/F or less.**

*Reminder: grey literature, such as government sources, long-form
magazines or news articles, research paper, NGO or corporate reports,
dissertations, etc., will not be considered as academic scholarly
articles, and don\'t use blogs, websites, etc., except for background
information and research; you can cite these sources as well, that\'s
fine, but they won\'t replace using and relying on scholarly articles
for evidence, etc.*

### **How should I format the Essaay?**

Your Essay should be in 12-point Arial or Helvetica or Verdana or
Calibri (avoid Times or Bookman, if possible, but no grades are lost for
using a Serif font and should be double-spaced and left-justified.

Generally, please format using 1" margins, so your essay will be about
5-7 pages. Bibliography/Works Cited go at the end of the essay. Note
that we use Word Count so squeezing or expanding your margins serves no
useful purpose at all.

*NO subheadings*: learn to use Transitions between paragraphs and major
sections.

### **How are you grading my essay?**

Your essay will be graded according to the following criteria:

#### **Reasoning:**

a.  Do you have a [clear thesis]{.underline}? (your [main
    claim]{.underline} in response to the question)

b.  Have you [developed arguments]{.underline} to support your thesis?

c.  Have you selected [reasonable objections]{.underline}?

d.  Do you have [evidence from the sources]{.underline} to support your
    claims?

e.  Are your [examples relevant, appropriate and sourced]{.underline}?

f.  Are your thesis, objections and replies and your arguments
    [defended]{.underline}?

#### **Understanding:**

a.  Have you [responded]{.underline} to the question?

b.  Have you [understood relevant ideas and issues]{.underline}?

c.  Have you explored [objections fairly and charitably]{.underline}?

d.  Have you [responded with reasonable replies]{.underline} to the
    objections?

e.  Did you [discuss all required sources]{.underline}?

#### **Clarity and Organization:**

a.  Can your arguments be [understood and followed]{.underline}?

b.  Do your [arguments, objections and replies connect and
    flow]{.underline}?

c.  Are your paragraphs ['units of thought']{.underline}?

d.  Have you [edited]{.underline} your essay?

e.  Does your essay have [*few to none* spelling and grammar
    errors]{.underline}?

#### **Citations and Referencing:**

a.  [Quality and appropriateness]{.underline} of your selected research
    materials

b.  Have you followed EITHER Chicago [footnote/endnote
    style]{.underline} OR Modern Language Association (MLA) [in-text
    bracket style]{.underline}?

c.  Have you provided [page numbers]{.underline} for all your citations?

d.  Have you [cited from most, if not all, sources]{.underline}?

e.  Have you [properly used quotations]{.underline} for materials/text
    from your sources?

f.  Have you [used Academic articles and books]{.underline}?

While these are 4 key areas, each one is part of holistic assessment.

### **[When do I cite information?]{.underline}**

Cite anything that is an idea or evidence from your sources. Definitely
cite any quoted information -- that is, you are using the exact same
words as your source. Remember: [changing words is not
sufficient]{.underline} to not require you to use quotes and cite the
source! (It can also be plagiarism.) Thus, cite the source and page
number [every time]{.underline} you directly quote a source OR when you
paraphrase an idea from a source OR when a particular idea or piece of
information comes from the source (even when you don't quote it
directly).

Essays without Chicago footnotes/endnotes or MLA in-line bracket
citation will receive an additional --10% penalty regardless of grade
achieved (e.g. earned 48% - 10% = 38%).

Essays with poorly done Citations may be levied a -5% penalty regardless
of grade achieved (e.g. earned 48% - 5% = 43%).

### **[Do I have to provide a Bibliography or Works Cited?]{.underline}**

You must include a Bibliography (Chicago) or Works Cited (MLA)
identifying, in alphabetical order by surname, the readings you used in
writing your essay. If you divide up your sources by source type (book
or article), that is okay, although, technically not correct but you
won't lose marks.

Essays without a Bibliography receive a --10% penalty regardless of
grade achieved (e.g. earned 48% - 10% = 38%).

Essays with poorly done Bibliographies may be levied a -5% penalty
regardless of grade achieved (e.g. earned 48% - 5% = 43%.

**Good luck! ... and Do Ask Us Questions!**

# What are the Instructions for the EBO?

**[Assignment Purpose:]{.underline}**

- *Develop skills to conduct successful research*

- *Effectively and efficiently identify quality resources in support of
  research*

- *Understand the importance of proper bibliographic management*

- *Master a citation style*

- *Research arguments to written up in an Essay Outline Worksheet
  (download and complete)*

## 1. Decide on an Essay topic from the choices below (same as those listed on the Essay Instructions page):  

1.  **Should Canada pursue the recommendations of the Truth and
    Reconciliation Commission? Focus on 2-3 recommendations.**

2.  **On balance, has globalization's impact been positive or negative?
    Compare the case of 2 countries.**

3.  **Should nuclear weapons be banned?**

4.  **Are global pandemics best managed by international cooperation or
    by states acting on their own?**

5.  **Is the American War on Terror a failure?**

6.  **Should Canada be accepting more refugees?**

2\. Bibliography section:

- Identify and access the following types of resources **from 2010
  onwards** (important to find current research!):

  - 

  - 2\. **Minimum 10 Academic Scholarly articles (Article sources)**

    - note: full marks require more than the minimum

    - no more the 2 articles from the same issue of a journal will count
      as separate entries

  - NO Wikipedia, newspapers/news websites, social media postings, news
    magazines, government reports, think tank reports, etc. \-- though
    not acceptable for this assignment (still, can be useful for
    background information)

- State which Style you are using: MLA 9 or Chicago 17

  - NO APE, AMA, IEEE, etc.

- Enter your Scholarly Academic Sources i[nto the provided EBO Worksheet
  document]{.underline} (note meeting the minimum, only gets you a
  minimum of grades)

- Ensure consistent use of the style, and accurate presentation of
  information = use only one citation style

- Follow [correct formatting]{.underline} including proper indentation,
  correct punctuation, correct use of italics or underlining, and
  correct order of information

- [Alphabetize]{.underline} your Sources

3\. Outline section:

- State your Thesis clearly -- ensure it accords with the directions
  given about the Thesis on the \"How do I Approach Writing an Essay for
  Political Science?\" page

- State your Argument 1 to support your thesis

- State your Argument 2 to support your thesis

**Complete & Submit the "Essay Bibliography & Outline Worksheet" Word
file**\
**(will be posted shortly):**

**Download this : Essay Bibliography Outline Worksheet WORD**

**(when you click on the above, it will open a new window for download,
etc.)**

## 

## **Here is an Example of the EBO Grading Sheet:** **(will be posted shortly):** 

**EBO Grading Sheet Example**

**(when you click on the above, it will open a new window for download,
etc.)**

# EBO: Due Date; Submission Cautions, Caveats, Rules, etc.

##  **READ fully, please** 

# **Submitting Cautions, Caveats, Rules, etc.**

## **EBO On-time Submission:**

- Due Date: Wed Oct 8 11:59pm

- No penalty leeway: Submit by Tue Oct 14 11:59pm

  - If you submit too close to 11:59pm, it may not go through in time
    *and so your submission is [not]{.underline} considered submitted*

- Resubmission is permitted until Tue Oct 14 11:59pm

  - your previous submissions will be over-written

  - we\'ll mark your last/latest submission

## **EBO Late Penalty -10% submission:**

- Due Date: Wed Oct 15 11:59pm

- No further penalty leeway: Submit by Wed Oct 21 11:59pm

  - If you submit too close to 11:59pm, it may not go through in time
    *and so your submission is NOT considered submitted*

  - FYI: \'further\' here means no extra penalty on top of -10% will be
    applied if submitted by Nov 15 11:59pm (after which point no
    submission will be accepted)

- Resubmission is permitted until Nov 15, 11:59pm

  - your previous submissions will be over-written

  - we\'ll mark your last/latest submission *so if you submit to this
    link after already submitting ot the On-time link, you will have the
    Late Penalty -10% applied to your EBO grade*

- Note: -10% is a flat penalty; there are no part or daily penalties for
  the EBO (or Essay)

### **NO EBO submissions are permitted AFTER Tues Oct 21 11:59pm without Academic Consideration**

## **General Submission Instructions, Directions, etc.:**

- Submit only through our Course OWL site

  - Submissions via email, courier, cloud drive linkshare, etc., will
    not count for submission

  - If you email, courier, etc., your EBO under any circumstances, by
    default, it will not be considered submitted or accepted for grading
    regardless

- No EBO submissions are permitted AFTER Tues Oct 21 11:59pm without
  Academic Consideration

- If you do not submit the EBO Worksheet as posted, and filled in with
  your work, [you will be assigned Zero]{.underline} so ensure you are
  submitting the proper document

  - You can submit the Word document or else the PDF but not other
    versions or your own version of the document, and if you do submit
    an alternate version, you will be assigned a Zero

- Upload [only Word or PDF]{.underline} files/attachments

  - File types: Word = .doc, .docx ; or PDF = .pdf

- If you submite an unrecognized or unrecognizable file or file type:
  you will [not]{.underline} be permitted to submit the correct file
  type later and will be assigned a Zero, *so pay attention to the above
  warnings and instructions*

- *Do not submit these file types*: Apple .odt, GoogleDocs .gdoc,
  Rich-Text Files .rft, Text .txt, Powerpoint .ppt/.pps/.pptx/.ppx,
  Excel .xls./.xlsx, Graphic .jpg/.jpeg/.png/.tif/.tiff/.gif

- No links to drives, linked drives, clouds, etc.: Sharepoint,
  GoogleDrive, iCloud, Dropbox, etc. will count as submissions

- **Only** submission through appropriate our OWL site\'s Assignments\'
  page link [counts for submission]{.underline}, so [no]{.underline}
  email, fax, dropping of hardcopies, couriers, etc., submissions are
  permitted for any reason

  - Do not email, fax, drop off hardcopy, courier, etc., submissions to
    the Instructors or anyone else as this is *[not]{.underline}*
    permitted; we are *[not]{.underline}* required/responsible to let
    you know that it doesn\'t count for submission \-- you need to pay
    attention to these directions \-- and not receiving a response to
    you doing any of the aforementioned *is [not]{.underline} grounds*
    for consideration, appeal, etc.

- **Note**: the following are [not]{.underline} grounds for resubmission
  or accommodation or for not being assigned a zero for your EBO
  submission

  - If you submit an unrecognizable file or file that is
    [not]{.underline} a Word or PDF file

  - If you change your topic for your Essay from the EBO topic you had
    when you submitted your EBO, you will retroactively get 0 for your
    EBO

  - If you don\'t check your submission before submitting to make sure
    it is the right version, right document, right file type, etc.

    - You can go back and check once your submission goes into OWL so do
      verify what you submitted

  - If you submit someone else\'s file/work as your own work \-- file
    mix ups, etc., are NOT grounds for defence as you can check/verify
    your submission

  - If you submit a non-English document

  - If you leave your submission as \'draft\'/upload and don\'t press
    the final submission buttons

  - If you go to rectify any of the above but *run out of time and the
    link available for submission closes on you*

  - If you submit a blank document/assignment

  - If you submit a partially completed document/assignment

  - If you submit an assignment for another course, etc.

  - NOTE: this list is [extensive but not exhaustive]{.underline} of
    *reasons not permitted for resubmission*, etc.

- Extensions:

  - Can\'t use Undocumented Absence for this assignment

  - [Only]{.underline} through following the processes for Academic
    Consideration

  - If you are seeking Academic Consideration, then you musn\'t submit
    in the On-time link (or the Late Penalty link) and then submit later
    to the Academic Consideration submission link

  - Academic Consideration submission link will be provided for you to
    submit [separately]{.underline} from the regular links
    [so]{.underline} await your access to the AC link for submission

  - TA-Markers do [not]{.underline} deal with extensions so don\'t
    email, etc., them \-- you need to pay attention to these directions
    \-- and not receiving a response to you doing any of the
    aforementioned for an extension *is NOT grounds* for consideration,
    appeal, etc.

    - TAs are not required/responsible to let you know they don\'t
      handle these matters, and if they do reply, they will simply tell
      you to read the Academic Consideration page

- *If you already submitted to the On-time link, [then]{.underline}*
  your submission to the Late link will be replace *that submission* and
  the Late Penalty will be applied to your grade

  - Do not submit to the Late link *unless* you want to replace your
    On-time link submission

- *If you submit to the Late link as well as the On-time link*, your
  submission to the On-time link will be replaced with *that submission*
  and the Late Penalty will be applied to your grade

  - Do not submit to the Late link *unless* you want to replace your
    On-time link submission

- Note: Maximum Grade for any assignment in this course is 100%

- I**f you have any questions, email or text Nig <nnarain@uwo.ca>,
  thanks**

# EBO Frequently-Asked Questions (EBO FAQs)

**"The difference between 're[A]{.underline}d it' and
're[D]{.underline}dit' is an A versus a D"**\
***-- Nig Narain***

##### **Late Updated: Sep 4**

*(Note that some of the direction the EBO Bot may give is not fully
nuanced or correct, so it\'s your responsibility to review all the
information posted on the OWL site to confirm the AI gave you correct
information and correct it yourself, and even the AI Bot always
cautions: \"There may be errors in my responses; always refer to the
course web page.\")*

ALSO, topic-specific questions will be answered on the Essay-FAQ page,
while more general EBO questions are discussed below.

1.  Should I read the Essay pages and watch all the Videos on how to do
    Research?

    a.  Yes

2.  Is this an annotated bibliography?

    a.  No

    b.  Nowhere is it stated that it it an annotated bibliography, so
        *don\'t invent requirements* (or mislead others, thanks)

    c.  If you did end up writing one, we will simply disregard it AND
        you still must meet all other requirements for this assignment

3.  Can I change my sources as I do more research?

    a.  Yes!

    b.  Improve your sources and get better research

4.  Can I change my Essay topic from what I write about in my EBO?

    a.  If you change your essay\'s topic-question from what you wrote
        for the EBO, you will get 0/zero for the EBO retroactively, i.e.
        lose the EBO grade = 0% but still get your full Essay grade

5.  What if academic article does not have proper page numbers on the
    document?

    a.  Articles all have page numbers, so you have to do a little
        digging to find the page numbers

    b.  You need to provide page numbers for all your articles, e.g.
        725-738

6.  Do I have to do one of the topics listed in the Essay Assignment?

    a.  Yes

    b.  Picking your own topic will result in a 0/zero being assigned
        and zero/0 for your grade for the EBO and/or Essay

7.  Do I just need only 10 article sources in total for full marks?

    a.  No: a minimum is exactly that *a minimum*

    b.  10 = 2.5/passing grade SO: 11 = 3, 12 = 4, 13+ = 5

    c.  If you have less than 10, you will get less/lower marks

8.  How do I come up with keywords?

    a.  Watch the video links posted and check out the Powerpoint.

    b.  Your keywords should come from the topic and you\'ll have to
        work through what you want to focus on, etc.

    c.  Your keywords must be relevant to the topic and not
        generalities, etc., that would gives us a relevant result

    d.  For example, if the topic was War Crimes and Yugoslavia:

        i.  Your keywords & synonyms could be:

            1.  war crimes \> genocide, ethnic cleansing, crimes against
                humanity

            2.  International Criminal Court \> UN, Security Council,
                The Hague

            3.  Yugoslavia \> Kosovo, Serbia, Croatia

9.  Do I have to provide page numbers for articles?

    a.  Yes

    b.  Example in MLA style: Bousfield, Dan. "Revisiting
        Cyber-Diplomacy: Canada--China Relations Online."
        *Globalizations*, vol. 14, no. 6, Aug. 2017, pp. 1045--59.

10. Do I have to check the Citation listing when I copy it from the
    Library Citation generator, ezBib, etc.?

    a.  Yes

    b.  Check to make sure the name of the journal and the page numbers
        are there in particular, as these two tend to be the info often
        missing when there is an error in auto-generators

11. Can I list sources from 2009 and earlier?

    a.  No

    b.  We are looking for sources published/written from 2010 onwards

12. Do I have to provide DOIs and URLs for scholarly academic journal
    articles?

    a.  Not required but can include if you want to, and no marks taken
        off or gained for having them

13. After I get my EBO back, can I change my arguments and sources, as I
    do more research?

    a.  Yes!

    b.  Improve your sources and get better research \> use the new
        sources in your essay, and you can replace the sources from your
        EBO if they no longer are as useful

    c.  Make better or different arguments as you work through your
        research, so do improve and change as needed

    d.  Change your examples or case studies so you have a better fit
        with/evidence for your arguments, etc.

14. Is the thesis one sentence only?

    a.  Yes

    b.  One sentence AND your supporting arguments can be put come
        afterwards (second, third, etc., sentences)

    c.  If you want to add some nuance or parameters that are
        reasonable, that is okay: \'I argue globalization has been
        positive in terms economic globalization\' or \'\'This essay
        argues nuclear weapons should not be banned for states but
        should be banned non-state actors\'

    d.  Your thesis is your main claim or position in response to the
        question your essay is addressing, so it is the main point or
        goal or purpose you are going to defend with arguments and
        evidence

    e.  You should state your thesis as a single sentence, such as "I
        argue ..." or "The state's policy on gambling should be ..."

    f.  If you have reasons or arguments in support of this position,
        you should put those in the next sentence or sentences

    g.  Don\'t provide your counter-arguments in the thesis, but you can
        provide in your Introduction para

    h.  Don\'t provide any rebuttals in the thesis or Introductory para

    i.  Also, what you argue is up to you as long as your thesis is
        reasonable and can be supported by the evidence in the sources

    j.  If you want to open with a \'hook\' or \'teaser\' statement
        before rolling into your thesis, etc., that\'s fine
        [but]{.underline} save that for your Essay, e.g. \"If not for
        globalization, would we have our computers, watches, phones and
        the Good LIfe? However, globalization created for those who
        produce the electronics and other stuff we consume a life that
        is barely life, much less a \'good life\'. In this essay, I
        argue \...\"

15. Does my thesis only have to be a response to the question?

    a.  Yes

    b.  It is clearest if you simply state your thesis as a response:
        \'I argue that the state should put limits on free speech\' or
        \'This essay argues the American War on Terror has failed\'

    c.  After having that done, you can add more sentences if you like,
        but note an unclear thesis is not made clearer by adding more
        sentences

16. Can I make more than 3 main arguments to support the thesis?

    a.  No

    b.  Aim for depth: make you main argument supported by strong
        arguments, evidence, etc., *which* needs you to have depth in
        your arguments

    c.  Reminder: this essay is 1500 words which is not a long essay

17. How many sentences per argument?

    a.  [3-5 sentences is fine per each]{.underline}

        i.  Argument: 3-5 sentences

        ii. Counter-argument: 3-5 sentences

        iii. Rebuttal: 3-5 sentences

        iv. DON\'T dump an entire paragraph or paragraphs for each

        v.  *Goal: tell the reader what your arguing and why*

    b.  5 sentences is a maximum

18. Can I use bullet-points?

    a.  Bullet-points are ok **IF** you write sentences and provide
        proper and necessary information

    b.  Best to follow the same as the sentences point above: 3-5 bullet
        points

19. Do I need to provide sources, citations or bibliography for the
    Essay Outline?

    a.  No

    b.  If you do, that\'s fine but we won\'t add or take away from your
        grade for this

20. May I include my arguments or an elaboration?

    a.  It is preferable not include them in the thesis but to provide
        them in the sentences which follow your thesis

    b.  However, some topics may actually be better served by doing so
        (so it\'s your call in that case), such as \'I argue Western
        European youth are not participating in formal politics because
        elections are not live-streamed on Twitch and TikTok partying
        features only EDM dub-step parties not political parties\"

21. Do I have to use \'I\'? Can I say \'This essay argues\...\', \'My
    argument is that\...\', \'The position taken here is\...\'

    a.  Yes, those are all fine as long you are focussing on
        [arguing]{.underline}, asserting, and making claims (not \'I
        feel that\' or \'it shook me to see\')

22. After my EBO was returned, I found other sources, etc., so do I need
    to re-submit the EBO?

    a.  No

    b.  You should always be on look out for better and more useful
        sources

    c.  You don\'t need to check them with your TA but make sure you\'re
        using academic sources

23. If my EBO question is asking me to focus on two case
    studies/examples, do I state them after my thesis?

    a.  Yes

    b.  

24. Do I have to provide examples or case studies?

    a.  If you If your question is asking you focus on case studies,
        then it would be good to mention your selections after your
        thesis or as part your arguments

    b.  Not required in the arguments\' details but can be helpful

25. Can I change my examples or case studies?

    a.  Yes, BUT if your essay question has specific guidelines (e.g.
        Western Europe), then your case studies must still conform to
        that requirements

26. What if I catch a last minute error and want to resubmit?

    a.  You can [but only until]{.underline} the submission link
        deadline can you resubmit a corrected version \> it will
        override your old submission with the new one ONLY if submitted
        by the deadline time

    b.  No submissions after the link is closed

    c.  Late Penalty submissions will override On-time penalty
        submissons and the Late Penalty -10% will be applied

    d.  No submissions or resubmissions via email will be accepted under
        any circumstances

27. What if the link shows Late after my submission goes through?

    a.  If OWL uploads your file, but it rolls past the deadline, it
        will just show as \"Late\" BUT *that Late* indicates OWL did
        upload it so you\'re good and won\'t be penalized as late

28. What if the link closes as I\'m submitting and does not show a
    submission?

    a.  If the link closes without your submission going through, then
        it is considered as *not submitted*

    b.  Don\'t wait to the last minute to submit as that is what will
        cause this problem and you will be out of options

29. What do I do if I missed the on-time submission deadline and the
    link is closed?

    a.  It\'s late SO keep working on it and then submit at the next
        available deadline through the Late Penalty link

30. What do I do if I missed the late submission deadline and the link
    is closed?

    a.  Unless you have academic consideration, you will NOT be
        permitted to submit the assignment and will receive 0

31. Can I use a style guide other than MLA 9 or Chicago 17?

    a.  No

32. Do I have to use MLA 9 Style Guide?

    a.  Yes, unless you are using Chicago 17 Style Guide

33. Do I have to use Chicago 17 Style Guide?

    a.  Yes, unless you are using MLA 9 Style Guide

